Element rendering informations
==============================

Built-in engines
----------------

- [Bootstrap 3](./Boostrap3.md)
- [Foundation 5](./Foundation5.md)


Implement your own rendering
============================

You can implement your own rendering in order to **add new components** or to **customize the rendering**
or to **implement a new client framework**. This can be acheived by either starting from scratch or extending
an existing engine.

**When should I write it from scratch?** - You should write it from scratch if you write for a specific framework

**When should I extend an engine?** - You should extend an engine if an enigne already fits most of your needing,
but you need new inputs, new structure or to customize existing elements.

Usualy when you write your own rendring you also want to extend the default builder : TODO builder doc

Base rendering class
--------------------

A render engine must extend the class ``UForm\Render\AbstractHtmlRender``

TODO

Rendering templates
-------------------

Render template are written with twig. The name of the templates matches the semantic types of the element.
If a semantic type does not have a template, the next semantic type is checked, until one matches.
If any of the semantic type has a matching template then an exception is thrown.

More information about the template rendering : TODO

### Template variables

- **current**: the instance of the current ``RenderContext`` instance
- **current.element**: the instance of the element you are rendering
- **current.children**: an array with the instances of the children of the current element
- **render**: the instance of the render engine

### Template functions

- **renderElement(element)**: process to the render of the given element
- **renderParentType()**: continue the rendering of the current element with the next semantic types
e.g if you call this during the rendering of a ``form`` it will process to the rendering of the form as a ``group``
- **defaultRenderFor()**: process to the default rendering of an element implementing ``UForm\Element\Drawable``
- **isValid()**: check if the current element is valid
- **isValid(element)**: check if the given element is valid
- **childrenAreValid()**: check if the children of the current element are valid
- **childrenAreValid(element)**: check if the children of the given element are valid



Element Semantic types
----------------------

Each element has one or more semantic types. TODO: Read more about semantic type

Here is the list of semantic types of the element:

TODO: autogenerated list from annotations

Element Options
---------------

Each element has standard options that must be implemented in every engine.
Of course you are free to use any other options.

Here is the list of the standard options :

TODO : autogenerated list from annotations



Notice about accessibility
--------------------------

We highly encourage every implmenetation of render engine to take care accessibility.

Thus the following rules should be considered:

- Always make use of ``label``
- Always link ``label`` to ``input`` with ``for`` attribute
- Always link ``label`` with attribute ``aria-labelledby``
- If an helper is present you should link it with ``aria-describedby``